My interest in wiki bots began many years ago with pywikipedia.  I
planned to use it in my presentation, but have decided not to include
it. However there is enough code here to perhaps be useful to others.

pywikipedia is very capable, and is especially valuable for older
mediawikis which don't have the api.php interface. However these are
becoming rare and I don't think you're likely to encounter
one. pywikipedia has grown beyond a library for writing your own bot,
and instead includes a large collection of existing bots for various
wiki maintenance tasks. 

pywikipedia uses a rather complicated setup. All other libraries I've
reviewed allow something akin to

 mw = wiki.Wiki(api_url)
 mw.login(username, password)

however pywikipedia wants you to break that information up over 2
different files, with a subdirectory and requires filenames determined
by the name of the wiki. There are advtantages to that (such as
password privacy and reusable config), but those advantages only
matter for bigger bots or public mediawikis. Many of my wikis live
behind the firewall, and have very different needs.

This first directory shows you the traditional way of constructing a
pywikipedia bot

  cd traditional
  svn co http://svn.wikimedia.org/svnroot/pywikipedia/trunk/pywikipedia pywikipedia
  ./bot1.py 
  cd ..

but I'm very averse to 'polluting the directory' with the extra files,
as it is very counter to my primary use case (an awesome clientside
pywikipediabot available at http://promethease.com ). The code below
is much more complicated, but manages to create the extra files before
instantiating the bot, and then cleans them up afterwards. Maybe
you'll find it useful or interesting. Really pywikipedia should just
allow the simplified format as a secondary type of instantation. 

That criticism aside, pywikipedia is a wonderfully capable library,
and you should consider it for mid to large sized mediawiki bots.

  cd singlefile
  svn co http://svn.wikimedia.org/svnroot/pywikipedia/trunk/pywikipedia pywikipedia
  ./bot1.py 
  cd ..

